Now I think this is the perfect time to kind of check our understanding of all the work that we've done
and maybe also look at some of these pre processing data munching subtleties that we might have missed
a lot of quick section hitting here just for that.
Now the way I'd like to tackle this is actually kind of what a challenge.
You see we started with about five thousand seven hundred and ninety six emails.
We split these e-mails into four thousand fifty seven e-mails for training and about one thousand seven
hundred and thirty nine emails for testing.
But how many of these individual emails were actually included in the text files that we save to our
disk.
Let's just look at the testing e-mails for now.
Can you figure out how many individual testing e-mails were included in the text file that was saved
to the disk using the train underscore grouped data frame and then compare that to the amount of emails
in X underscore test after splitting and shuffling our data how many individual e-mails were actually
included in the X on a score test data frame is the number the same and if not which emails were excluded
and why I recommend comparing the doc idea values to find out did you ever go at this.
This might have been a little bit of a tricky challenge actually.
So let me show you the solution the way I'm going to tackle this is using Python sets once again.
Now those other ways for sure but I think this code is terse and it's also clear.
Create two variables which will hold on to these sets the first one will be trained on a squat dock
on a school I.D. And that's gonna be our set of all the document I.D. which were under trained on the
score grouped then I'll create a second set called test on a school doc on a school I.D. and set that
equal to a set that I create from test underscore grouped dot Doc I.D..
This will give me a comparison.
The reason I'm doing this is because I can easily print out the number of individual emails using these
sets alien parentheses train dark I.D. will give me the number of individual emails in our training
set.
So that's four thousand and fourteen compared to the four thousand and fifty seven alien test.
Dock I.D. will give me the number of individual emails that we actually saved under the testing text
file so that's 1723 and we can compare this number to the length of X underscore test which was one
thousand seven hundred and thirty nine emails.
So 16 emails have gone missing or have been excluded but which ones.
Which emails were excluded.
Well remember how we said that pipe on sets are very very useful for checking membership to find out
which emails are included in one set but not in the other set.
We can use well Python sets again only this time we will take the difference between two sets.
Check it out if you recall X on a school test dot index actually stored our document I.D..
If I take this whole thing and grab the values then I can transform my index values into a Python set
to see which values are included in this one but missing from this one all I have to do is take the
difference between the two and that will give me the answer.
Here are the 16 emails that are not included in our text file but that still doesn't answer the question
why we've only identified the specific document ideas that were problematic.
Let's dig in and take a closer look at these messages.
The first one I'm going to pull up through data dot message is message number 14.
So data dot message.
Square brackets 14.
Show us the message text or the first email that didn't make it.
And this email looks like this.
It's well it's.
It looks like a private key or a public key of some sort.
It's complete gibberish.
What about some of the other ones.
Let's check.
3 2 5 4 16 and fulfill 5 3 2 5.
Looks like this for 16.
Looks like this and 4 4 5 looks like this.
Now I'm starting to spot a pattern here.
All of these e-mails seem to look like a complete mess but maybe the reason they look like this is because
we had a problem reading this file right.
Maybe this is related to our encoding that we used and this is where we're getting some sort of like
mojo back here or something right.
Maybe that's the source of the problem.
So let me actually pull up one of these files in my text editor.
I'm going to go with file number say 14.
The way I can find out which file this actually was it's going to data dot LLC and then feeding in the
number 14.
This will give me the actual file name so that starts with 0 0 0 9 5 and then something.
I've located this file under my spam 1 folder in my spam assassin Corpus.
Opening this file in my atom text editor gives me the following.
I got my email header up top and then down here I've got my email body.
So what we saw in Jupiter notebook is actually the email body right.
One to one we didn't screw something up on the encoding.
How would you like to venture a guess as to what we get when we stick this email through our message
cleaning function so clean.
Message note HD PML parentheses data dot at square brackets 14 comma single quote message.
Would you like to venture a guess of what we get when we stick our message body from this particular
email through our cleaning function we get a string like this how this particular string as you can
probably guess is not part of our vocabulary.
It's not part of the top 2500 words that we're using for our classifier and hence this email would not
have been included when we created our sparse matrix.
This condition here if word in words set filters out if any of the words in the email are not part of
our vocabulary now the story is quite similar with some of these other emails.
But one exception is this one that I found here 1000 and 96 this document data error message.
Square brackets one thousand and ninety six looks like so hand looking at this text we see that it's
not all gibberish right.
This is mostly HCM l actually right.
We can see a whole bunch of H2 email tags in the body of this email.
And what happens when we clean this message and remove the HD him l so clean on his core message on
a score.
No I just go H2 AML parentheses data dot at square brackets one thousand ninety six comma single quote.
Message is that we get an empty list.
This particular message contains so much HDMI all that beautiful soup.
The tool that we use to remove all the H mail tags and strip those from our email bodies actually leaves
nothing behind.
There is no single word that actually makes it into our list.
The reason that I know it's beautiful soup and not our words them or something else is if I call our
other function clean underscore message where the HDL takes are left in and our feed in the very same
code data dot at square brackets 1 0 9 6 comma message a typo then I get the following I get all my
H team l tags as individual words on this list so I think that was actually quite subtle.
There was something that was happening in the background that we might not have noticed while we were
writing our code but it's always good to check if your code is doing what you expected to do.
And I think this also gave us a chance to have another go at practicing using Python sets and really
seeing their use in checking membership.
Especially if you're looking for differences and trying to see which values are included in one but
not on the other one.
And that's it.
This wraps up our pre processing.
We've actually done an incredible amount of work in the past couple of lessons.
We've extensively cleaned our data explored our data visualized our data and the text files and the
Jasons and all these files that we've saved toward disk create checkpoints that mean that we don't have
to rerun all the work and all the code in our Jupiter and notebooks.
In fact we've worked really hard to create the files that contain the data that we will feed into our
naive bayes classifier algorithm.
And if you take another look at this training data and this testing data that we've created you'll notice
that all the strings all the text has disappeared from them.
We're exclusively working with numbers now all the stemmed words are replaced just by word ideas by
integers.
It's much more abstract right.
But what we've effectively done is we've transformed our words into tokens but not only that we've also
counted how often each token appears in every email message.
With this in hand it's time to train our naive based classifier.
We can move on to the next step in our project now and Jupiter notebook.
It's getting very very long and as such it's getting also a little bit unwieldy.
So I'm quickly gonna go up here and rename this notebook.
I call it 0 6 A's classifier pre hyphen processing click rename and then for the next point where we're
training our algorithm we're gonna be doing it in a new fresh notebook.
That way we've separated out all the pre processing that we're doing in one Jupiter notebook and we're
going to separate that training that we're gonna do for this project into a separate notebook.
And on that note I'll see you in the next lessons.
Take care.